Everyone always says:
What is Algebra? How do I use it? 
but no one asks:
Why is Algebra? What does it really mean?

Maybe you've seen some Algebra before and wondered... why?
Why are there letters? What are these symbols?
Or even if you haven't, that's completely okay.
This series of videos will focus on the intuitions behind Algebra, and why everything is the way it is.

Perhaps we can start from the actual name.
Algebra actually comes from Arabic, and it means "the reunion of broken parts."
It comes up when we want to find the unknown. 

But I think I'll just try to show you an example:
Imagine you go to use the bathroom, but when you come back, you see your friend with two pencils in their hand. 
You look back at your pile of pencils and you only see one left. 
You try to think, but forget: how many pencils did you originally have?

This sounds like a simple problem. But instead of trying to do it in our heads, let's use Algebra.
Let's use a picture of the number of pencils we had like [this].
We can think of this as some number that we currently don't know: It could be 1 pencil, 4 pencils, or 1000!
Anyways, we know that our friend took 2 of them. 
So that means that our number of pencils got [subtracted by 2].
And lastly, we know that we saw 1 pencil when we got back from the bathroom.
That's why we can say that this is equal to this.

So we can write our equation like [this].
Overall, the number of pencils we had was subtracted by two, represented by this minus two, and now this is equal to 1 pencil remaining.
Think for a moment and try to understand how we converted our word problem into Algebra. Really, try and pause the video to contemplate.

Now, I know this doesn't seem like a lot, and it really isn't.
But the beauty with Algebra is that we can use it to solve problems like this:

Really take a look at it, and pause the video if you want to try it out yourself.
If you try to guess, finding the answer might take a long time!
Yet, we can methodically and easily solve it using algebra.
Think of it as a sneak peek for what's to come.

Now, back to our equation, there's one last thing I want to quickly address:
In our equation, we used a picture of a pencil to show how many pencils we had in the first place.
But a little secret I'll tell you right now is that mathematicians are lazy. 
We wouldn't want to draw pictures every single time we did math, so let's use a letter instead like this.
I think p makes the most sense, because p can stand for pencils - the amount of pencils we had.

The last thing I want to touch on is the significance of [this] equals sign.
Algebra is all about trying to put back together broken parts, which can be hard - I mean, think about trying to put back together a broken window!
That's why we're going to be using [this] as much as we can.

Later, we'll delve into how exactly we can do that, but I hope this served as a little intro into the wonderful world of Algebra.